layout: post
title: DLN, version 2
tags: [intro, beginner, jekyll, tutorial]
comments: true
category: blog

# The Digital Literacy Narrative is a progressive assignment in three steps, which will be completed over the course of the semester, as well as being graded twice. 

As a 20 year old university student majoring in Interactive Media & minoring in Computer Science, currently taking a digital humanities course, I find myself expanding my knowledge of effective technology utilization in my academic and personal endeavors on a daily basis. If you do your calculations right, you would conclude that I’m a gen-Z human (generation born between 1997 & 2010, the coolest individuals who will revolutionize the world). I opened my eyes in a digital world & since my birth, technology never stopped developing. I’m very used to the digital age now that I chose to dedicate my life to it & be a woman in STEM. I have big ambitions to do research in AI, but I don’t want it to take anymore human jobs. 
Until I took this course with Professor David Wrisley called “Intro to Digital Humanities”, I never realized how technology might be utilized to manage, alter, and evaluate research data. I also never truly understood the potential of technology for research data management, data manipulation, and analysis. For me, this course is eye-opening.

To keep up with friends and family, as well as my favorite influencers and companies, I rely heavily on social media like Instagram and LinkedIn in my day-to-day existence. The ease and availability of these mediums for social interaction has long been a source of gratitude for me. However, I have also learned the dangers of overusing social media and its limits, such as its effect on one's mental health and the invasion of one's privacy. I’m currently taking a course with Professor Suphan Kirmizialtin called “Digital Archives” with similar topics (privacy concerns, Internet Archives, copyrights..) , & if there’s something I will get away with from both of these courses is to use Incognito mode for my dumbest Internet searches.


As an IM/CS student, projects & softwares are as necessary in my life as my glasses. 
Canva, Adobe suite and other content production tools help me make graphics and aesthetic things for my academic projects. The potential of video editing tools like DaVinci Resolve & Adobe Premiere Pro to improve my filmmaking work and make it both aesthetically attractive and neatly efficient is something I've just lately come to appreciate. I also use Google Classroom, Docs & Slides a lot for papers, presentations & remote meetings, sometimes individually & sometimes as a team for specific projects.

When it comes to managing my research material, I am heavily dependent on Google Drive to keep all of my papers and projects in one place. Microsoft Excel is a tool I use for data analysis tasks like making charts and graphs, but also for some of my student assistantships at NYU Abu Dhabi. But I've learned that for more advanced data processing and analysis, these methods may fall short.

Inquisitiveness about the technologies that are changing the world makes me want to know more about machine learning and computer systems. Machine learning is the process of teaching a computer system, usually through the use of algorithms and statistical models, to learn from experience and become better at doing a certain job. Contrarily, computing systems rely on both hardware and software in order to perform tasks like data processing, storage, and program execution. I’m currently taking the time to learn about the inner workings of such technologies, as I said before I'm drawn towards pursuing research in AI alongside a career in software engineering. 


This digital humanities course has taught me the value of digital literacy and made me aware of the wide variety of resources available for managing and analyzing research data. R, Stata and Tableau are data visualization and network analysis tools that I am currently familiarizing myself with, as well as the computer languages Python, HTML, C, CSS, JavaScript & Linux. The possibility that these tools will transform the way we approach and analyze data has captivated me, and I can't wait to figure out how to put them to use in my own research and career.

I believe that everyone has to be literate in digital technologies since they have permeated every aspect of modern life and are changing the way we work, play, and communicate. Access to information, interpersonal communication, and the opportunity to engage in the political, economic, and social life of one's community all depend on it. Furthermore, digital literacy is essential for professional and personal growth since it facilitates learning new things throughout one's life and increases one's chances of success in an increasingly competitive global job market.

In conclusion, learning digital literacy as part of Intro to DAAH has been so far an insightful and rewarding experience for me. I now see the value of technological advancements in the areas of research data administration, data processing, and analysis, and I look forward to expanding my knowledge in these areas. I’m aware that there is much more to learn, I am keen to continue expanding my knowledge and talents in the areas of content production and social interaction beyond my current level of competence. As the Arabic proverb says: “Seek knowledge even if you have to go as far as China.”
